Add data ingestion intro (#267)
Trackunit/developer-hub: api-docs/data-ingestion-intro.md

---
title: Data Ingestion - Introduction
category: 679c8bdc9f2a95005ecb5d1c
---

> The Data Ingestion API provides a streamlined method for integrating asset device data into the Trackunit Iris platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Data Ingestion API provides a streamlined method for ingesting asset data into the Trackunit Iris platform.
```

This RESTful API is designed for efficient time-series data transmission, prioritizing accuracy for both historical and real-time asset information within the Iris ecosystem.

Supports ingestion of multiple data types:
- Machine Insights
- Locations
- Advances Sensors

> 📘 Subscription requirement
>
> The Data Ingestion API is only available to customers on IrisX. Learn more about the [IrisX subscription](https://developers.trackunit.com/docs/irisx-overview)

## Use Cases

The Data Ingestion API is particularly valuable for:

- Systems requiring minimal data latency
- Recovery scenarios requiring backfilling of data
- Migration projects involving bulk historical data import

> - Telematics data integrations where [data feeds](https://new.manager.trackunit.com/marketplace?q=&c=DATA_FEEDS) are insufficient

Reviewer: this is not supported yet right?

Author: what do you mean @Bilgram ?

Reviewer: ah my bad read it like telematics data ingestion - ignore this one
